So with CSS Grid being a
relatively new and modern technology,
of course we need to talk about browser support
before finishing up this section.
And so that's what we're gonna do in this video.
And let's start by looking at the Grid support
here at caniuse.com.
So that's always a reference
for checking which CSS features are available
on which browsers.
And so you see that actually,
the support for CSS Grid is fairly good.
So like 77% of the global users
do right now, support CSS Grid.
And we can also see that all modern browsers,
as of today, support Grid.
So the current version of Edge, Firefox, Chrome,
Safari, and iOS Safari.
And also Chrome for Android here, and Samsung Internet.
So the start browser of the Samsung phones.
Now the problems here are, as always,
the older Internet Explorers and also Microsoft Edge.
So the old Internet Explorer has
a very old specification of Grid,
which is not really usable.
So we actually don't even prefix the Grid properties
for the older Internet Explorers
because it's not even worth it, okay?
So based on this scenario, of course the question is,
as always, can I use CSS Grid in production today?
And by today, I mean by the end of 2017,
when I'm recording this video, or even sometime in 2018.
Now if you're watching this in the far future,
then you probably don't have to worry about any of this,
but right now, in this year and the next year,
we will have to think about this, okay?
And as always, the answer depends on a lot of factors.
For example, if you know
that your audience are mostly high-tech users,
which will most likely all use the modern browsers,
then probably using CSS Grid is no problem.
But if you know that it's the other way around,
so if you can guess that your audience
are not so technical people,
and that many of them maybe
haven't updated from an old Internet Explorer,
or even from an old Safari here,
which also doesn't support Grid, then in that case,
maybe it's not so safe to use it in production right now.
At least, not without having a fallback, okay?
And speaking about fallbacks,
that brings us to something called progressive enhancement.
And I think I've talked about this before in the course,
and so let's talk about it again here
in the case of CSS Grid.
So basically with progressive enhancement,
we build a page with the older CSS methods,
pretending that new stuff like Flexbox
and Grid doesn't even exist.
And then on top of that, we build our layout with CSS Grid,
if the browser supports it, okay?
Now I'm actually not a huge fan of doing that,
because that means that we have duplicate work
and that we still have to mess around with all this old code
and if we decide to write our code with older methods,
like float layouts and all that,
then we might as well leave it like that
and not use any CSS Grid at all.
But anyway, I'm going to show you
how we could theoretically go about doing that.
So in case you want to use progressive enhancement,
with CSS Grid, I'm going to show you how you can do it.
So I'm going to use just a small example of our page,
which is this section here,
So basically laying out these six items here,
in a 3x2 grid, all right?
So let's come here to our code editor again,
and open up the "features" file.
And so what takes care here of aligning the elements
in the 3x2 grid is this part here of the code.
So let's just pretend it doesn't exist for now.
So let's pretend we cannot use CSS Grid
and then this is what it would look like, okay?
So without CSS Grid enabled in a browser,
this is what it would look like.
And actually a bit worse, even,
because we also used CSS Grid for each of these items.
So we would have to deactivate it here as well,
and so that's what it would look like,
completely without CSS Grid, okay?
But anyway, let's now try to lay out these items
like we had them before.
So in this grid here, like this.
So how could we do that?
Well, we would actually have to use float
on each of the feature.
So let's come here,
and write "float: left;".
So let's take a look at that.
And that's actually not doing anything,
because we have to give them a width
so these block elements,
they're now occupying 100% of the available width.
And so if we give each of them
like 1/3, so 33.3333%,
then that should probably look like what we want.
Okay.
Now let's just give it some margin here at the bottom.
(typing)
six rem, and then some padding
to each of them as well.
And whoa, that actually looks not
like we want it to look
so let's just get rid here of the padding, okay
So yeah, that kind of looks like what we had before
so I am not doing this in a perfect way, I know,
but it's just to show you how we could do it
with progressive enhancement.
So how can we now add the CSS Grid stuff
on top of this?
Well, just as I showed you before,
we can use the supports at-rule, okay?
And so I can write
(typing)
"@supports" and test if the browser supports display grid.
And if it does so, then we want this code here to execute.
Right? Does that make sense?
But that's actually not all that we have to do
in case that the browser supports Grid, right?
Because right now, we also have this code here active.
And so that would look like this, okay?
So that's also not what we want
and so let's put the feature query here as well.
@supports
display: grid
and then let's basically reset these properties.
Now we don't have to do it for all of them
because certain things are actually ignored
by grid containers and grid items.
And the same applies to flex containers and flex items.
So what gets ignored by CSS Grid and Flexbox,
are floats, display, inline-block, display:table-cell,
and vertical-align altogether, okay?
So this float here, we don't have to reset it
because it's actually ignored
now that this feature here is a grid item.
So all we have to do is to reset this width here,
set it to auto,
and the margin-bottom, we also need to get rid of that.
(typing)
So zero.
And here we go. So we're back to normal.
And if we had a browser now, which wouldn't support Grid,
then it would simply display it to as we had it before.
So basically, without this code, and without this code.
All right? So you could now go ahead
and build the entire page like this
using the older methods basically as a fallback.
And that would mean of course
that you would have a lot of duplicate work
and also the website would look different
on different browsers, but that's not really a problem.
The problem here is all the duplicate work and again,
that's why I'm not really a fan of doing it like this.
So just to wrap up, in conclusion, it really depends
on your audience if you can use CSS Grid today
in production or not.
I think that personally, I'm gonna go all in with CSS Grid
next year when I'm redesigning my personal website, okay?
But that's again because I think that most of the visitors,
so people like you taking my course,
are more technical users, so I think that people like you
use all the modern browsers
and so I'm pretty sure that I'm not leaving out many people
if I'm using CSS Grid.
Okay, and with that being said,
we are now done with our project.
In the next lecture,
we will just have some final considerations
and then really wrap up the section and this project.